# numpy-image-speedtest
Complementary code material for the blog titled [TBD](#).

## Replicating the Experiment
- The experiment was run on this [colab notebook](#). 
- The scripts from this repository were run on the aforementioned notebook to measure the time taken by the various methods and to plot the results. 
- The generated plots were downloaded and used it the blog after they were generated by the notebook.
- You can follow the steps mentioned in the notebook to replicate the experiment.

## Explanation
There are two scripts in the repository with different functionality:

1. The script `main.py`:
	- This script measures the time taken by each method to solve each problem at various scales of the input image (as explained in the blog).
	- The script saves the measured time information as a numpy file to the `plots` directory. It then reads the numpy file and uses the measured time information to create plots.

2. The script `verify.py`:
	- This script checks if the solutions of every method to a given problem are equivalent to each other. This check is run for both problems.
	- For instance, if we have methods I, II and II for problem #2, then we want to ensure that the solutions provided by each method is the same for a fair comparison.
	- The script also saves the output of each method (for each problem and input image scale) as an image to the `output` directory so that the user can visually inspect the solutions if required.

## Disclaimer
The measurements were taken on 2nd August 2020 on the aforementioned colab notebook. The **exact** timings and speedups **may vary** based on several factors such as software/hardware versions and so on. It might also be affected by some extraneous factors such cpu/memory usage and so on. Hence, refer to these measurements only to get an **approximate** sense of the differences in performance. Refer to the colab notebook for more information about the versions of some of the software used.
